<url>http://www.ted.com/talks/david_gallo_on_life_in_the_deep_oceans</url>
<keywords>talks, TED Conference, animals, geology, life, oceans, science, submarine, technology</keywords>
<speaker>David Gallo</speaker>
<talkid>343</talkid>
<title>David Gallo: Life in the deep oceans</title>
<description>TED Talk Subtitles and Transcript: With vibrant video clips captured by submarines, David Gallo takes us to some of Earth's darkest, most violent, toxic and beautiful habitats, the valleys and volcanic ridges of the oceans' depths, where life is bizarre, resilient and shockingly abundant.</description>
They do to!
She okay?
Wow
No
Like my fear of wearing pastels?
What good stuff?
Thank God! If I had to hear one more story about your coiffure...
What crap?
No...
You always been this selfish?
Then that's all you had to say.
You never wanted to go out with 'me, did you?
I looked for you back at the party, but you always seemed to be "occupied".
Have fun tonight?
You know Chastity?
Hi.
So that's the kind of guy she likes? Pretty ones?
She's not a...
I really, really, really wanna go, but I can't. Not unless my sister goes.
Eber's Deep Conditioner every two days. And I never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.
You're sweet.
I counted on you to help my cause. You and that thug are obviously failing. Aren't we ever going on our date?
Where?
Well, there's someone I think might be --
Forget French.
I don't want to know how to say that though. I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are. How much does champagne cost? Stuff like Chat. I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
C'esc ma tete. This is my head
Gosh, if only we could find Kat a boyfriend...
Unsolved mystery. She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
Seems like she could get a date easy enough...
Cameron.
Forget it.
Okay... then how 'bout we try out some French cuisine. Saturday? Night?
Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.
I did.
I don't have to be home 'til two.
All I know is -- I'd give up my private line to go out with a guy like Joey.
Bianca, I don't think the highlights of dating Joey Dorsey are going to include door-opening and coat-holding.
Is he oily or dry?
Would you mind getting me a drink, Cameron?
Joey.
Where did he go? He was just here.
No.
You know the deal. I can ' t go if Kat doesn't go --
You're concentrating awfully hard considering it's gym class.
Hey, sweet cheeks.
Neat...
Queen Harry?
Hopefully.
Expensive?
Perm?
It's just you.
No! I just wanted
I just wanted --
Let go!
You looked beautiful last night, you know.
Not all experiences are good, Bianca. You can't always trust the people you want to.
I guess I thought I was protecting you.
That's not
I wanted to let you make up your own mind about him.
After that, I swore I'd never do anything just because "everyone else" was doing it. And I haven't since. Except for Bogey's party, and my stunning gastro-intestinal display --
Just once. Afterwards, I told him I didn't want to anymore. I wasn't ready. He got pissed. Then he broke up with me.
He said everyone was doing it. So I did it.
Now I do. Back then, was a different story.
He was, like, a total babe
In 9th. For a month
Joey never told you we went out, did he?
I do care. But I'm a firm believer in doing something for your own reasons, not someone else ' s .
Listen, I know you hate having to sit home because I'm not Susie High School.
I don't get you. You act like you're too good for any of this, and then you go totally apeshit when you get here.
Bianca, I need to talk to you -- I need to tell you --
You are so completely unbalanced.
It's Shakespeare. Maybe you've heard of him?
At least I'm not a clouted fen- sucked hedge-pig.
Bogey Lowenstein's party is normal, but you're too busy listening to Bitches Who Need Prozac to know that.
You're ruining my life' Because you won't be normal, I can't be normal.
What do you think?
It means that Gigglepuss is playing at Club Skunk and we're going.
Can you at least start wearing a bra?
Nowhere... Hi, Daddy.
I have a date, Daddy. And he ' s not a captain of oppression like some men we know.
Fine. I see that I'm a prisoner in my own house. I'm not a daughter. I'm a possession!
He's not a "hot rod". Whatever that is.
No, but
Daddy, I want to discuss the prom with you. It's tomorrow night --
Why?
Just for a minute
Wear the belly before you go.
Oh, God. It's starting.
Daddy, people expect me to be there!
Otherwise known as an orgy?
And where're you going?
Exactly my point
But it's not fair -- she's a mutant, Daddy!
What if she never starts dating?
Now don't get upset. Daddy, but there's this boy... and I think he might ask...
Padua girls. One tall, decent body. The other one kinda short and undersexed?
Fan of a fan. You see a couple of minors come in?
Always a pleasure, Brucie.
You humiliated the woman! Sacrifice yourself on the altar of dignity and even the score.
Buttholus extremus. But hey, you're making progress.
Extremely unfortunate maneuver.
You told me that part already.
Assail your ears for one night.
He's pretty!
Her favorite uncle
Number one. She hates smokers
Will Bogey get bent?
This is it. A golden opportunity. Patrick can ask Katarina to the party.
You got him involved?
I thought you hated those people.
That's what I just said
Forget his reputation. Do you think we've got a plan or not?
They always let felons sit in on Honors Biology?
He seems like he thrives on danger
You wanna go out with him?
Unlikely, but even so, she still can't go out with you. So what's the point?
The mewling, rampalian wretch herself.
Yeah, just a minor encounter with the shrew.
You mean I'd get a chance to talk to her?
Sure do ... my Mom's from Canada
Joey Dorsey? Perma-shit-grin. I wish I could say he's a moron, but he's number twelve in the class. And a model. Mostly regional stuff, but he's rumored to have a big tube sock ad coming out.
Because they're bred to. Their mothers liked guys like that, and their grandmothers before them. Their gene pool is rarely diluted.
I could start with your haircut, but it doesn't matter. She's not allowed to date until her older sister does. And that's an impossibility.
Bianca Stratford. Sophomore. Don't even think about it
You burn, you pine, you perish?
Yeah, but these guys have never seen a horse. They just jack off to Clint Eastwood.
Couple thousand. Most of them evil
Get out!
How many people were in your old school?
I was kidding. People actually live there?
So -- which Dakota you from?
So they tell me...
You get the girl.
Where?
You makin' any headway?
She hates you with the fire of a thousand suns . That's a direct quote
What'd you do to her?
Sure
She's partial to Joey, not me
It's off. The whole thing.
Don't make me do it, man
So what does that give me? I'm supposed to buy her some noodles and a book and sit around listening to chicks who can't play their instruments?
I've retrieved certain pieces of information on Miss Katarina Stratford I think you'll find helpful.
Yeah -- we'll see.
And why would I do that?
Your sister here?
Where ya goin?
Hey -- do you mind?
Yeah, and I noticed the only part of you featured in your big Kmart spread was your elbow. Tough break.
Enough with the Barbie n' Ken shit. I know.
Get her to act like a human
How'd you do it?
It's about time.
Forget it.
What?
I got her under control. She just acts crazed in public to keep up the image.
I'm on it
Fifty, and you've got your man.
Fine, thirty.
How much?
You're gonna pay me to take out some girl?
But you'd go out with her if you had the cake?
You just said
Yeah, whatever. I want you to go out with her.
What do you think?
Hey -- it's all for the higher good right?
What? We took bathes together when we were kids.
Uh, yeah. We're old friend*
So what you need to do is recruit a guy who'll go out with her. Someone who's up for the job.
But she can't go out with you because her sister is this insane head case and no one will go out with her. right?
Well, actually, I thought I'd run an idea by you. You know, just to see if you're interested.
Nope - just came by to chat
Hey.
William - he asked me to meet him here.
Have you seen him?
You ' re looking at this from the wrong perspective. We're making a statement.
Listen to you! You sound like Betty, all pissed off because Archie is taking Veronica.
Can you even imagine? Who the hell would go to this a bastion of commercial excess?
You didn't
You didn't have a choice? Where's Kat and what have you done with her?
You went to the party? I thought we were officially opposed to suburban social activity.
What'd he say?
You think this'll work?
Does it matter?
Neither has his heterosexuality.
William didn't even go to high school
So he has this huge raging fit about Sarah Lawrence and insists that I go to his male-dominated, puking frat boy, number one golf team school. I have no say at all.
The people at this school are so incredibly foul.
I realize that the men of this fine institution are severely lacking, but killing yourself so you can be with William Shakespeare is beyond the scope of normal teenage obsessions. You're venturing far past daytime talk show fodder and entering the world of those who need very expensive therapy.
What's this?
Mandella, eat. Starving yourself is a very slow way to die.
He always look so
That's Pat Verona? The one who was gone for a year? I heard he was doing porn movies.
Who's that?
Oh, Bianca? Can you get me my freshman yearbook?
Why is my veggie burger the only burnt object on this grill?
Is that right?
I thought you could use it. When you start your band.
I didn't care about the money.
It wasn't like that.
Wait I...
That ' s completely adorable!
What?
Look, I'm -- sorry -- that I questioned your motives. I was wrong.
It's just something I had. You know
How'd you get a tux at the last minute?
Answer the question, Patrick
You tell me.
Create a little drama? Start a new rumor? What?
Why not?
No what?
You know what I mean
Go to the prom with me
No one else knows
You're sweet. And sexy. And completely hot for me.
I hate peas.
I know the porn career's a lie.
The duck?
State trooper?
You up for it?
How?
Something like that
I don't like to do what people expect. Then they expect it all the time and they get disappointed when you change.
Acting the way we do.
Yeah, well, don't let it get out
I dazzled him with my wit
Good call.
The Partridge Family?
You want me to climb up and show you how to get down?
Put your right foot there --
C'mon. It's not that bad
Look up, sunshine
Other than my upchuck reflex? Nothing.
Don't for one minute think that you had any effect whatsoever on my panties.
Unwelcome.
Pleasant?
I heard there was a poetry reading.
Excuse me, have you seen The Feminine Mystique? I lost my copy.
BIANCA
He just wants me to be someone I'm not.
I'm gettin' there
You don't strike me as the type that would ask permission.
Start a band?
Do what?
Why'd you lie?
No, you weren't
Were you in jail?
When you were gone last year -- where were you?
And I'm in control of it.
Kat! Wake up!
I thought you were above all that
I know. It'd have to be a pretty big deal to get you to mainline tequila. You don't seem like the type.
Dorsey.
Why'd you let him get to you?
See that? Who needs affection when I've got blind hatred?
Because then I'd have to start taking out girls who like me.
Sure, I do
I told you
Leave it to you to use big words when you're shitfaced.
What if you have a concussion? My dog went to sleep with a concussion and woke up a vegetable. Not that I could tell the difference...
Uh, uh. You lie down and you'll go to sleep
You're not okay.
Okay?
I say, do what you wanna do.
What's this?
You know who The Raincoats are?
Do you mind? You're sort of ruining it for me.
Excuse me?
hey. Great show, huh?
You're not a big talker, are you?
I was in the laundromat. I saw your car. Thought I'd say hi.
Seven-thirty?
Come on -- the ponies, the flat beer, you with money in your eyes, me with my hand on your ass...
Then say you'll spend Dollar Night at the track with me.
You hate me don't you?
Like where? The 7-Eleven on Burnside? Do you even know my name, screwboy?
Oh, right. Friday.
My mission in life.
Sweating like a pig, actually. And yourself?
Oh, Christ. Don't tell me you've changed your mind. I already sent 'em a check.
You know, fathers don't like to admit that their daughters are capable of running their own lives. It means we've become spectators. Bianca still lets me play a few innings. You've had me on the bleachers for years. When you go to Sarah Lawrence, I won't even be able to watch the game.
What's the matter? Upset that I rubbed off on her?
The part where Bianca beat the hell out of some guy.
Parts of it.
No, Daddy.
Funny.
Was that your sister?
You're eighteen. You don't know what you want. You won't know until you're forty-five and you don't have it.
As a parent, that's my right
Why can't we agree on this?
Is this about Sarah Lawrence? You punishing me?
My insurance does not cover PMS
This from someone whose diary is devoted to favorite grooming tips?
I thought we decided you were going to school here. At U of 0.
<reviewer href="http://www.ted.com/profiles/490889">Elena Montrasio</reviewer>
<translator href="http://www.ted.com/profiles/258692">Geoffrey Chen</translator>