<url>http://www.ted.com/talks/david_gallo_on_life_in_the_deep_oceans</url>
<keywords>talks, TED Conference, animals, geology, life, oceans, science, submarine, technology</keywords>
<speaker>David Gallo</speaker>
<talkid>343</talkid>
<title>David Gallo: Life in the deep oceans</title>
<description>TED Talk Subtitles and Transcript: With vibrant video clips captured by submarines, David Gallo takes us to some of Earth's darkest, most violent, toxic and beautiful habitats, the valleys and volcanic ridges of the oceans' depths, where life is bizarre, resilient and shockingly abundant.</description>
They do not!
I hope so.
Let's go.
Okay -- you're gonna need to learn how to lie.
I'm kidding. You know how sometimes you just become this "persona"? And you don't know how to quit?
The "real you".
I figured you'd get to the good stuff eventually.
Me. This endless ...blonde babble. I'm like, boring myself.
do you listen to this crap?
Then Guillermo says, "If you go any lighter, you're gonna look like an extra on 90210."
But
Well, no...
I was?
Tons
I believe we share an art instructor
Looks like things worked out tonight, huh?
Who knows? All I've ever heard her say is that she'd dip before dating a guy that smokes.
Lesbian? No. I found a picture of Jared Leto in one of her drawers, so I'm pretty sure she's not harboring same-sex tendencies.
I'm workin' on it. But she doesn't seem to be goin' for him.
Sure have.
How do you get your hair to look like that?
You have my word. As a gentleman
You got something on your mind?
There.
How is our little Find the Wench A Date plan progressing?
That's because it's such a nice one.
Right. See? You're ready for the quiz.
Let me see what I can do.
That's a shame.
Why?
The thing is, Cameron -- I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser. My sister. I can't date until she does.
No, no, it's my fault -- we didn't have a proper introduction ---
You're asking me out. That's so cute. What's your name again?
Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part. Please.
Can we make this quick? Roxanne Korrine and Andrew Barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break- up on the quad. Again.
You think you ' re the only sophomore at the prom?
I have to be home in twenty minutes.
Sometimes I wonder if the guys we're supposed to want to go out with are the ones we actually want to go out with, you know?
Combination. I don't know -- I thought he'd be different. More of a gentleman...
He practically proposed when he found out we had the same dermatologist. I mean. Dr. Bonchowski is great an all, but he's not exactly relevant party conversation.
Great
Who?
You might wanna think about it
Did you change your hair?
Listen, I want to talk to you about the prom.
Hi, Joey.
My agent says I've got a good shot at being the Prada guy next year.
It's a gay cruise line, but I'll be, like, wearing a uniform and stuff.
So yeah, I've got the Sears catalog thing going -- and the tube sock gig " that's gonna be huge. And then I'm up for an ad for Queen Harry next week.
Exactly So, you going to Bogey Lowenbrau's thing on Saturday?
It's more
Patrick -- is that- a.
Is that woman a complete fruit-loop or is it just me?
What? To completely damage me? To send me to therapy forever? What?
You set me up.
So did you
I guess I'll never know, will I?
God, you're just like him! Just keep me locked away in the dark, so I can't experience anything for myself
I'm not stupid enough to repeat your mistakes.
No. you didn't! If you really thought I could make my own decisions, you would've let me go out with him instead of helping Daddy hold me hostage.
Why didn't you tell me?
But
You did what?
As in...
But you hate Joey
Why?
What?
I wish I had that luxury. I'm the only sophomore that got asked to the prom and I can't go, because you won ' t.
Like you care.
You're welcome.
I really don't think I need any social advice from you right now.
Can we go now?
Yeah, he's your freak friend Mandella's boyfriend. I guess since I'm not allowed to go out, I should obsess over a dead guy, too.
Like I'm supposed to know what that even means.
Can't you forget for just one night that you're completely wretched?
What's normal?
I think you're a freak. I think you do this to torture me. And I think you suck.
Oh, I thought you might have a date I don't know why I'm bothering to ask, but are you going to Bogey Lowenstein's party Saturday night?
Oh my God, does this mean you're becoming normal?
I have the potential to smack the crap out of you if you don't get out of my way.
Where've you been?
I'm missing something.
You're not going unless your sister goes. End of story.
It's that hot rod Joey, right? That ' s who you want me to bend my rules for?
The prom? Kat has a date?
Because she'll scare them away.
Promise me you won't talk to any boys unless your sister is present.
Daddy, no!
It's just a party. Daddy.
If Kat's not going, you're not going.
It's just a party. Daddy, but I knew you'd forbid me to go since "Gloria Steinem" over there isn't going --
If you must know, we were attempting to go to a small study group of friends.
Daddy, I --
But she doesn't want to date.
Then neither will you. And I'll get to sleep at night.
No! You're not dating until your sister starts dating. End of discussion.
Just sent 'em through.
Never
Didn't have you pegged for a Gigglepuss fan. Aren't they a little too pre-teen belly-button ring for you?
Best case scenario, you're back on the payroll for awhile.
No, I ' m not.
The hell is that? What kind of 'guy just picks up a girl and carries her away while you're talking to her?
Hell, I've just been going over the whole thing in my head and -
It's her favorite band.
Okay! I wasn't sure
Dead at forty-one.
It's a lung cancer issue
Are you kidding? He'll piss himself with joy. He's the ultimate kiss ass.
In that case, we'll need to make it a school-wide blow out.
Like we had a choice? Besides -- when you let the enemy think he's orchestrating the battle, you're in a position of power. We let him pretend he's calling the shots, and while he's busy setting up the plan, you have time to woo Bianca.
Hey -- I've gotta have a few clients when I get to Wall Street.
You know, if you do go out with Bianca, you'd be set. You'd outrank everyone. Strictly A-list. With me by your side.
Did she actually say she'd go out with you?
I'm serious, man, he's whacked. He sold his own liver on the black market so he could buy new speakers.
No kidding. He's a criminal. I heard he lit a state trooper on fire. He just got out of Alcatraz...
What makes you think he'll do it?
What about him?
I teach her French, get to know her, dazzle her with charm and she falls in love with me.
That's her? Bianca's sister?
You could consecrate with her, my friend.
Guess who just signed up for a tutor?
You know French?
He always have that shit-eating grin?
Why do girls like that always like guys like that?
Why not?
Who is she?
That girl -- I --
That I'm used to.
How many people go here?
Thirty-two.
Yeah. A couple. We're outnumbered by the cows, though.
North, actually. How'd you ?
C'mon. I'm supposed to give you the tour.
You the new guy?
What's the worst?
She kissed me.
She just needs time to cool off I'll give it a day.
I don ' t know. I decided not to nail her when she was too drunk to remember it.
Then, go get her
Cameron -- do you like the girl?
What 're you talking about?
Cameron, I'm a little busy
Gigglepuss is playing there tomorrow night.
Okay -- Likes: Thai food, feminist prose, and "angry, stinky girl music of the indie-rock persuasion".
What've you got for me?
And he means that strictly in a non- prison-movie type of way.
Leave my sister alone.
Away.
Not at all
They're running the rest of me next month.
The vintage look is over, Kat. Haven't you been reading your Sassy?
I don't know, Dorsey. ..the limo.-the flowers. Another hundred for the tux --
Do what?
A deal's a deal.
Forget her sister, then.
A hundred bucks a date.
I just upped my price
Watching the bitch trash my car doesn't count as a date.
When I shell out fifty, I expect results.
Take it or leave it. This isn't a negotiation.
I can't take a girl like that out on twenty bucks.
I can't date her sister until that one gets a boyfriend. And that's the catch. She doesn't want a boyfriend.
You got it, Verona. I pick up the tab, you do the honors.
You need money to take a girl out
Sure, Sparky. I'll get right on it.
Two legs, nice rack...
Yeah
You better not fuck this up. I'm heavily invested.
You and Verona?
I hear you're helpin' Verona.
Does this conversation have a purpose?
We're not.
We don't chat.
Are you lost?
Oh, honey -- tell me we haven't' progressed to full-on hallucinations.
Who?
Oh, good. Something new and different for us.
Okay, okay, we won't go. It's not like I have a dress anyway
Well, I guess we're not, since we don't have dates .
I got drunk. I puked. I got rejected. It was big fun.
I did Bianca a favor and it backfired.
I didn't have a choice.
Who cares?
No fear.
If I was Bianca, it would be, "Any school you want, precious. Don't forget your tiara."
I appreciate your efforts toward a speedy death, but I'm consuming. Do you mind?
That's never been proven
William would never have gone to a state school.
You could always go with me. I'm sure William has some friends.
But imagine the things he'd say during sex.
An attempted slit.
Just a little.
Block E?
I'm sure he's completely incapable of doing anything that interesting.
Patrick Verona Random skid.
Don ' t you even dare. . .
Because I like to torture you.
Yeah, but then I fucked up. I fell for her.
Besides, I had some extra cash. Some asshole paid me to take out a really great girl.
A Fender Strat. You bought this?
Really? What was it like? A down payment now, then a bonus for sleeping with me?
You were paid to take me out! By -- the one person I truly hate. I knew it was a set-up!
It gets worse -- you still have your freshman yearbook?
That's where I was last year. She'd never lived alone -- my grandfather died -- I stayed with her. I wasn't in jail, I don't know Marilyn Manson, and I've never slept with a Spice Girl. I spent a year sitting next to my grandma on the couch watching Wheel of Fortune. End of story.
My grandmother's .
Oh huh
It's Scurvy's. His date got convicted. Where'd you get the dress?
Nothing! There's nothing in it for me. Just the pleasure of your company.
You need therapy. Has anyone ever told you that?
So I have to have a motive to be with you?
Because I don't want to. It's a stupid tradition.
No, I won't go with you
No.
Is that a request or a command?
You're amazingly self-assured. Has anyone ever told you that?
What?
No -- something real. Something no one else knows.
Tell me something true.
Hearsay.
Fallacy.
For. . . ?
You never disappointed me.
Then you screwed up
So if you disappoint them from the start, you're covered?
Yes
So what's your excuse?
A soft side? Who knew?
So how'd you get Chapin to look the other way?
I figured it had to be something ridiculous to win your respect. And piss you off.
Maybe.
Forget it. I'm stayin'.
Try lookin' at it from this angle
I guess I never told you I'm afraid of heights.
He left! I sprung the dickhead and he cruised on me.
So what did I have an effect on ?
Unwelcome? I guess someone still has her panties in a twist.
Wholesome.
You 're so --
What are you doing here?
No offense, but you're sister is without. I know everyone likes her and all, but ...
Who?
So what ' s up with your dad? He a pain in the ass?
Oh, so now you think you know me?
My father wouldn't approve of that that
This.
I should do this.
Then why'd you ask?
Maybe.
Busy
But it's Gigglepuss - I know you like them. I saw you there.
What?
You know what they say
Hey man. . . You don ' t think I can be "cool"? You don't think I can be "laid back" like everyone else?
I hate him.
Who?
Just let me sit down.
Like you could find one
Why?
You don't care if I die
Why 're you doing this?
This is so patronizing.
I know, just let me sleep
I just need to lie down for awhile
I'm fine. I'm
Funny, you're the only one
"I'm getting trashed, man." Isn't that what you're supposed to do at a party?
Why, don't you?
You know, these guys are no Bikini Kill or The Raincoats, but they're right up there.
That's what you want, isn't it?

Depends on the topic. My fenders don't really whip me into a verbal frenzy.
Hi
Are you following me?
You -- covered in my vomit.
And why would I do that?
I don't really think you warrant that strong an emotion.
I know a lot more than that
The night I take you to places you've never been before. And back.
Pick you up Friday, then
There's a way to get a guy's attention.
I mean Wo-man. How ya doin'?
When I go?
No -- impressed.
Bianca did what?
Which parts?
So tell me about this dance. Was it fun?
I don't understand the allure of dehydrated food. Is this something I should be hip to?
Yeah. She left with some bikers Big ones. Full of sperm.
I want to go to an East Coast school! I want you to trust me to make my own choices. I want --
So what I want doesn't matter?
Because you're making decisions for me.
I thought you were punishing me.
Then tell them I had a seizure.
Enough!
You decided.
I know.
<reviewer href="http://www.ted.com/profiles/490889">Elena Montrasio</reviewer>
<translator href="http://www.ted.com/profiles/258692">Geoffrey Chen</translator>